---
title: "One day, I hope focus shifts towards what is best for students rather than what is best for parents"
date: 2024-07-20T11:21:03-04:00
slug: "hope-focus-shifts-towards-students-rather-than-parents"
educator:
    name: Dr. Payal Mital
    role: Biology Educator
schools:
- South Fayette School District
---

#### What did your journey into education look like?

My journey into education is certainly a unique one. I completed my PhD in biomedical sciences at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. I had met my husband at the time, but I knew I needed to finish my schooling first before following him and his job to Pittsburgh. After completing my PhD, I ended up doing my postdoctoral fellowship at Magee Women’s Hospital for two years. During this time, I was evaluating my life as a researcher. I enjoyed research, but what I loved even more was mentoring, teaching and training undergraduate students and high school students. When I was at Magee, we would receive high schoolers every summer and so I very naturally fell into this role of mentoring the interns, and I loved it. I also realized how important these high school years were to make a difference and ignite passion in someone else.  As I continued to watch my colleagues fight for funding (at a time where funding looked grim) and work 80-100 hours per week while constantly stressed in the lab, I realized that I wanted a vocation that would allow me some work-life balance. I yearned to begin my journey into teaching but knew that I would have to go back to school to do so. At the time, this was not the best option for me.  It was a time of great change as we had just purchased a house, and we had a little one at home. In addition, I was still on a work visa and without having a green card, you cannot become a certified educator in the state of Pennsylvania.  I did secure an EAD card to begin the process, and I decided to take a part time job at a Jewish Girl’s School in Squirrel Hill.

In many ways, this experience was amazing. I enjoyed the liberty I had to create a curriculum, design a sequence that made sense and dive deep into materials and labs while having time for questions and discussions. The students were wonderful and their questions and involvement with the material was outstanding. However, after five years there, I decided it was time to get into the public education sector. I had to pass the state certification in biology and then worked within an alternative certification program via Point Park University. At the time, it was 2021 and very few schools were accepting student teachers. The only two schools that appeared available were Mount Lebanon and Upper Saint Clair. I was approved to student teach in Upper Saint Clair but received a life-changing phone call from the director of the certification program at Point Park University asking if I was interested in applying for an emergency certification and attempting a long term substitute position as a Biology teacher at South Fayette School District. Not only was the school five minutes away from my home, but this experience would count as my student teaching experience.  I ended up teaching there for six months and then when the other educator decided to not come back after her maternity leave, I reapplied for the position and have been there ever since.

#### How have your experiences shaped your teaching philosophy?

My experience at an independent school certainly differed from my experience in public education. There are certain days where I miss the amount of time I had to pose questions and facilitate discussions. In public education, I do teach a tested subject and so there is pressure to make sure we are teaching the material in a timely fashion and moving everyone along together. I adore what I teach, but there are certain moments where  I wish I could teach something in a different sequence or have time to be more reflective. I’m also not a huge believer in traditional multiple-choice test taking. I think if the kids had the freedom to learn through exploration and experimentation and not worry about a test, they would learn more deeply. In the past two years, I have had a lot of beautiful discussions with administration about why we are teaching a specific way, the labs I am teaching as well as the diverse ways in which the subject can be taught. They have been incredibly supportive of my thoughts and questions. High school is also a very pivotal time in many of our student’s lives in terms of the challenges and the difficulties they may be going through as humans. There are moments where the actual content is not the most important thing and that is okay. This past year, I finally had my own room, and I was able to make some curricular changes that allowed me to feel my joy returning and focus on the whole child. I have learned that it is okay to ask questions because there are often better ways to educate than we even think possible. Questions and reflections should be ongoing as we watch the world and the humans we teach, evolve and change around us.

#### What subjects and grade levels do you teach?

I teach regular level and honors level biology to freshmen. A majority of the students are not only learning new content, but they are not used to high school and the level of challenge that comes with it. There is as much academic learning as there is social emotional learning in the first year of high school. I greatly enjoy teaching freshmen, but I also wish I could teach them again through an elective, so that I could see them grow and blossom throughout their years. I have a few ideas in terms of electives I would like to create and teach but given the amount I have on my plate, I remind myself that I cannot do everything all at once!

#### What other projects are you involved in that spark your soul?

This past year, I was involved with a lot of wonderful organizations. However, I do feel as if I was spreading myself too thin, and I hope in future years I find ways to empty my plate and spend more time focusing on the endeavors I am most passionate about! Currently, I am involved with the organization entitled Teaching is my Favorite Color. In addition to this, I am a proud sponsor of the SHOUT club that I run with Dr. Herring. This past year, I was also a Teach Plus PA Policy Fellow. Through this experience I learned so much about policy, advocacy and how things come together at the local and state level. I was able to truly step outside of my comfort zone and learn to speak publicly to a wider audience. However, I simultaneously realized that my heart still lies within the schools and with my students and that I am most passionate about my work at the ground level.

#### Can you tell me a little more about Teaching is My Favorite Color?

Teaching is my Favorite Color is an organization that originally brought together teachers of color from South Fayette, Hampton and Avonworth. It began with one of our teachers in the Hampton School District who had attended the People of Color Conference. This was such a pivotal moment for me that I can recall the exact date of our first meeting which was March 3rd 2022. Dr. Miller (our superintendent) had approached me through Dr. Herring for an upcoming meeting at Avonworth and I was asked to represent South Fayette. This meeting included Digital Promise as well as our superintendents. We realized the urgency we needed to set up this network of educators of color because there weren’t any affinity groups in Pennsylvania.  We created the name and started planning the first meeting and this is where the journey first began. We hope to expand this organization in order to bridge the gap between city schools and suburban schools and recruit more teachers of color  to join our efforts. It is the start of something beautiful.

#### Who are some of the beautiful mentors that have impacted your journey and added to your light?

One of my greatest mentors is Dr. Herring (DEI Director at South Fayette). Meeting one another was completely accidental. Our district has a huge South Asian population and our collaboration began with  developing a PD for our faculty and staff on South Asian culture. We are constantly bouncing ideas off of one another, and he has given me so many opportunities to create an inclusive environment for our students and staff. In addition, Dr. Miller has been an outstanding mentor to me. Every conversation I have with her is incredibly open and a learning experience. She would deny it, but she has also been an integral part of helping us establish Teaching is my Favorite Color. She comes with a wealth of knowledge about students, families, policy and how things work both on the inside and outside of education. She is welcoming, warm and an all-around excellent leader. Finally, Pharlan Ives who is currently an assistant principal at South Fayette Elementary school is a wonderful mentor, leader and friend. She has encouraged and supported me and also provided me with important information in order to understand education from an administrative perspective.

#### Since becoming an educator, what are a few important life lessons you have learned along the way?

Becoming an educator has imparted numerous valuable life lessons. One of the most significant lessons I have learned is the importance of treating all students with kindness, respect, and empathy. Building a foundation of trust and mutual respect is essential for creating a positive and effective learning environment. When students feel valued and understood, they are more likely to engage actively and perform to the best of their abilities.

Another crucial lesson is to trust my instincts as an educator. When I sense that a particular approach or solution is right, I have learned to advocate for it assertively. This means not hesitating to request what I believe is in the best interest of my students and to challenge the status quo when necessary. When faced with a "no," I have found it valuable to ask, "Why not?" This question encourages dialogue, invites reconsideration, and often leads to innovative solutions or compromises that ultimately benefit the students.

These lessons have not only shaped my approach to teaching but have also enriched my personal growth, reinforcing the values of empathy, advocacy, and perseverance.

#### What are your hopes for the future of education and yourself?

I am blessed to be where I am today. I have excellent leaders to look up to. My hope for education is to increase base pay for educators. Many individuals are pushed from going into education simply because of the pay and lack of respect. In addition, I truly hope the focus begins to shift more towards what is best for students rather than what is best for parents. We need to support one another and create open communication lines so this can be achieved. For myself, I intend to stay in education for a lifetime. I have a deep passion for diversity and equity work. What I have learned on this journey is that people are incredible and inspirational. You must find your people that will not only keep you grounded but keep your heart and mind growing. I believe I have found this in education and that has made all the difference.
