+++
date = 2020-10-14T22:20:57Z
images = ["/uploads/sarah_kirmeyer.jpg"]
schools = []
slug = "hope-peace-safety-everyone"
title = "One day, I hope for peace and safety for everyone"
[educator]
is_student = true
name = "Miss Sarah Kirmeyer"
role = "Senior Student"
[educator.contact]
facebook = ""
instagram = "kirmeyerkiddos"
linkedin = ""
twitter = ""
website = ""

+++
#### What or who inspired you to become an educator?

When I was younger, I always knew I wanted to be involved with children. I realized in middle school that becoming an educator was the best way for me to inspire and help the most children. Recently, I've realized that I am so much more passionate about being an educator than I ever realized. I am using my role as an educator to empower the next generations and to be their safe person. Growing up I had many amazing teachers. They have definitely inspired me to be who I am today. In high school, I did an early childhood education career program that allowed me to focus on early childhood and allowed me to work in the field as well. That experience just made me even more excited and gave me the confidence I needed.

In addition, I am surrounded by very powerful women. I am lucky to have the best mom in the world. I know people say that, but I truly mean it. She is and always has been my best friend. She stands up for others, does what's right, and has a heart of gold. She has inspired me to be the woman I am today. My goal is to be even half as wonderful as she is.

#### What is your current role? What other roles have you had in the sphere of education?

I am currently a student teacher  for the next two semesters. I began with babysitting and have been a nanny since I was in high school. I was able to au pair in Italy where I taught English. In addition, I had an internship with Head Start in high school where I was an assistant teacher.

#### Why are you still in the field of education?

I am in the education field because I wish to empower and educate.  I want my students to know they matter and that they are free and safe to express themselves and learn who they really are. I want to teach them the curriculum, but education is so much more than that. They need to realize how to become a beautiful human, how to trust, how to be honest, and how to be kind to themselves. I want them to know they are safe in my classroom and are free to tell me how they feel. Too many people grow up not having someone in their life who they can go to. Too many people grow up not being able to be their true self. I want my children to know that they don't need to follow stereotypes or gender roles. I want them to then take what they learn in my classroom and apply it to the rest of their life. Lastly, my hope is that all students want to better themselves and create positive change within their communities. 

#### What injustices or inequalities do you see within the walls of your own school? What changes can you make to shift the field towards equity and justice?

Sadly, I see perpetuated stereotypes in every school I have set foot in.  I will continue to do my best to eradicate these stereotypes by using books and materials that show people of all walks of life such as transgenders, people of color and people with varying familial structures. In other words, students should see the world represented within literature and the curriculum. Every  child should feel like they are welcomed and accepted.

#### One day what do you hope for?

One day I hope for peace and safety for everyone. Life is difficult.  Our job is to just “be kind.”