+++
date = 2021-02-14T22:50:20Z
images = ["/uploads/emmanuel-williams.jpg"]
schools = []
slug = "hope-equal-funding-all-states"
title = "One day, I hope for equal funding across all states per scholar"
[educator]
is_student = false
name = "Mr. Emmanuel Williams"
role = "Instructional Coach"
[educator.contact]
facebook = ""
instagram = ""
linkedin = ""
twitter = ""
website = ""

+++
#### What is your educational background?

I received a Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Pittsburgh. In addition, I received a Master’s Degree from Grand Canyon University.

#### What or who inspired you to become an educator?

I decided to become an educator because of the students. The reason I am an educator to this day is because of the inquisitive minds, the eyes of my scholars and the raw passion they bring towards bettering themselves and bettering society.  I enjoy cultivating critical thinkers who are ready to make a difference in society. They need to understand the true America we live in and the inequalities that are still prevalent today against people of color. In other words,  I want to help foster "The Rose Who Grew From The Concrete."

{{< stanza >}}
Did you hear about the rose that grew
from a crack in the concrete?
Proving nature's law is wrong it
learned to walk without having feet.
Funny it seems, but by keeping its dreams,
it learned to breathe fresh air.
Long live the rose that grew from concrete
when no one else ever cared
{{< /stanza >}}

_- Tupac Shakur_

#### What is your current role? What other roles have you had in the sphere of education?

I am currently an Instructional Coach. However, I have also had the following roles as an educator: Sports Coach, Special Education Teacher, 8th Grade Composition Teacher, 7th Grade Social Studies Teacher, Grade Level Chair and  DEI Liaison.

#### Why are you still in the field of education?

I am still in the field of education because “When you know better you do better!”  Growing up in an underprivileged, underserved community (where most people count you out prior to even starting the race), caused a lot of trauma in my life. I am still in the field of education so that I can help to alleviate the stress and trauma caused by white America for my brothers and sisters. For me, education is a privilege and a responsibility. I will remain in this field and continue to climb the education ladder until I am able to speak to those who sign the paper that can really bring forth change.

#### What injustices or inequalities do you see within the walls of your own school? What changes can you make to shift the field towards equity and justice?

Truly, the entire system and social construct of education is filled with injustice and inequality. If I could make a change, I would burn the entire system down!

#### One day what do you hope for?

I hope for equal funding across all states per scholar. Funding and quality of education should not be based on zip code.
